So let's quickly start working on the Angular app we created. This is the folder the CLI gave us
and as you can see, it has a bunch of sub-folders and files.
As I said, most of these files are purely for configuration and we don't need to worry about them.
The package.json file is interesting because here, you can see all the dependencies and
development-only dependencies of the project and
later once we start adding some MongoDB related dependencies, we'll also see them here.
We've got files for configuring the Typescript compilation and you don't need to worry about that,
the defaults are fine.
We've got the Angular.json file which is for the Angular CLI and we also don't need to worry about this
file in the course for now. Then e2 is for end-to-end testing,
we won't cover this here.
node_modules actually stores all the dependencies which are listed here, so
they are installed into that folder so that they are available to the project and you can always
recreate that folder by running npm install inside this project folder in the terminal,
this will read the package.json file and download and install them all into a newly-created
node_modules folder. And the src folder is where our Angular application lives in,
here we've got even more config files which we can safely ignore and
then, we've got this app folder here.
Now there, we write the meat of our Angular application.
Angular actually uses components,
I'll come back to this in the next section and we create our whole application by composing our UI from
such components.
Therefore, if you have a look at that app.component.html file,
you can see what we see on the screen here.
This is actually the content we see here with some dynamic content here and
as I said, I won't dive deeply into all the basics of Angular but a brief refresher will be given in
the next course section and
if we change this page here and for example say our first app and save that and ngServe
is still running, that's important,
it will automatically recompile and reload this page without us doing anything
but again, make sure that the ngServe process here is still up and running.
You can quit it with Ctrl-C, but you should only do so once you are done with developing for the day,
when you are developing, it has to run
so that it watches your changes,
recompiles the code and reloads that page. And this is the front-end we'll work with, we'll add more components,
we'll compose a complex UI with it and we'll start working with Angular here.
Now again, I'll walk you through that project and how Angular works in a brief summary in the next
section.
For now, let's leave it at this little change here so that we can see that we were able to do something.
Just one more word,
I said that we create a Single Page Application and you can actually see that single page here,
this index.html file in the source folder.
This is the file served by ngServe right now
or by your favorite host towards the end of the course,
we will deploy the app together.
This actually doesn't contain a lot of content, for one because the script imports are injected by
our build workflow,
I said that we have quite an elaborate build workflow and it will actually take our optimized Angular
app, create the output files and inject them in there.
We don't see this during development because it happens in memory but this is what will happen
and we also see it has one HTML element in the body and that actually is not a default
HTML element, that is our custom component,
you can see it here on the selector.
This is how Angular works and how we take control over the UI with Angular and how we can then start composing
our UI with Angular components.
And now with that, I'd say let's continue and let's find out what's in this course for you before we start
diving deeper into Angular and building that whole MEAN stack from the ground up.